Kubecon 2022 releases (#2069)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/pulumi-kubernetes-new-2022/index.md

Pulumi Kubernetes Operator v1.10 expands the ways that Pulumi infrastructure can be defined.  In addition to the existing Git-based source that has been supported to date, this release adds two new ways to define your infrastructure:

* Integration with Flux Sources - enabling any Flux Source to provide the Pulumi program that defines your cloud infrastructure.
* Support for Inline Infrastructure sources - a new `pulumi.com/v1/Program` Custom Resource that can be used to describe cloud infrastructure directly within the Kubernetes resource model.

Together, these open up a wide variety of new ways to apply the Kubernetes Operator as an interface for defining and delivering cloud infrastructure.

### Integration with Flux Sources

<img align="right" width="120" src="flux-icon.png">

> We’re excited to partner with the [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/) project in the CNCF to bring even richer GitOps support to the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator.  While the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator offers basic GitOps and branch tracking support, it supports only a fraction of the features that the Flux’s SourceController providers. Instead of rebuilding all of these features, we chose to provide rich integration with Flux Sources, enabling Pulumi programs to be provided via Flux, and then handed off to drive infrastructure deployments using the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator `Stack` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re excited to work with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/), a CNCF project, to bring even richer GitOps support to the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator.  While the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator offers basic GitOps and branch tracking support, it supports only a fraction of the features that the Flux’s SourceController providers. Instead of rebuilding all of these features, we chose to provide rich integration with Flux Sources, enabling Pulumi programs to be provided via Flux, and then handed off to drive infrastructure deployments using the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator `Stack` resource.
```

Using Flux offers a variety of important new features to Pulumi Kubernetes Operator users:

1. Support for Flux’s [Notification Controller](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/notification/) and webhooks to drive highly responsive updates when new commits are pushed
2. Access to sources other than Git repositories: [S3 buckets](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/buckets/) and [OCI repositories](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/ocirepositories/)
3. Support for platforms like Azure DevOps that require specific Git implementations
4. Sources and Stacks can be defined by different teams, since they are separate resources which can have independent RBAC rules applied.
5. Many advanced Git features including: following semver ranges, excluding files from source, recursively cloning submodules, verifying revision signatures, and more.

To use the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator with Flux, install each of the necessary controllers, and then deploy the Flux `Source` and Pulumi `Stack` resource that define your infrastructure delivery:

```

> TODO

Reviewer: ```yaml
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: flux-source-access
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - source.toolkit.fluxcd.io
  resources:
  - "*"
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
---
kind: RoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: pulumi-flux-source-access
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: pulumi-kubernetes-operator
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: flux-source-access
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: GitRepository
metadata:
  name: pkodev
spec:
  interval: 30s
  ref:
    branch: main
  url: https://github.com/squaremo/pko-dev
---
apiVersion: pulumi.com/v1
kind: Stack
metadata:
  name: pkodev
spec:
  stack: lukehoban/pkodev/test
  fluxSource:
    sourceRef:
      apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
      kind: GitRepository
      name: pkodev
    dir: basic/
  envRefs:
    PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN:
      type: Secret
      secret:
        name: pulumi-api-secret
        key: accessToken
  destroyOnFinalize: true
```

The first two resources give the operator permission to see Fllux sources. The GitRepository and the Stack are what I use for examples; there's obviously lots of Pulumi examples you can substitute.

* “Upsert” support; create a resource if it does not exist, or update the existing resource with specified changes.
* Diffs no longer depend on the last-applied-configuration annotation, which fixes a number of subtle  issues that users of the provider previously could run into.

These features bring Pulumi and Kubernetes even closer together, enabling Pulumi’s rich Infrastructure as Code to fit even more naturally into the Kubernetes desired state and shared ownership model.

Check out the [Managing Resources with Server Side Apply](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/kubernetes/how-to-guides/managing-resources-with-server-side-apply/) article for more details on these new features.

## Conclusion

At Pulumi, we are passionate about pushing the state of the art of Infrastructure as Code forward, and applying modern Infrastructure as Code to support Kubernetes projects and teams is a critical component of that vision.  All of these new features around Pulumi and Kubernetes help to further empower teams to build scalable and robust solutions around Kubernetes and Pulumi IaC.

> We’re so happy to be able to partner with the Flux project to bring all of the benefits of its composable GitOps toolkit to Pulumi users. We’re excited about the new use cases that Inline Infrastructure support in the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator enables. And we’re thrilled to bring Server Side Apply and Patch support to the Pulumi Kubernetes Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re so happy to be able to work with the Flux project to bring all of the benefits of its composable GitOps toolkit to Pulumi users. We’re excited about the new use cases that Inline Infrastructure support in the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator enables. And we’re thrilled to bring Server Side Apply and Patch support to the Pulumi Kubernetes Provider.
```

---
date: "2022-10-23"

> title: "Pulumi+Kubernetes: Flux Integration, Inline Programs and SSA"

Reviewer 2: is there room to fit in "New" or "Announcing" in here somehow? just to make it more clear that this is a launch.

Author: Tried to fit it in in latest update.

  interval: 30s
  ref:
    branch: main
  url: https://github.com/lukehoban/pko-dev
---
apiVersion: pulumi.com/v1
kind: Stack
metadata:
  name: pkodev
spec:
  stack: lukehoban/pkodev/test
  fluxSource:
    sourceRef:
      apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
      kind: GitRepository
      name: pkodev
    dir: basic/
  destroyOnFinalize: true
```

Note that by using the new `fluxSource` property on a `pulumi.com/v1/Stack` resource, you can configure it to use the corresponding source instead of an inline definition of the target Git repo and branch.  The `GitRepository` could be replaced with any other Flux Source.  For example, to pull our source code from an S3 bucket, use this instead:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: Bucket
metadata:
  name: pkodev
spec:
  interval: 5m0s
  provider: aws
  bucketName: podinfo
  endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
  region: us-east-1
  timeout: 30s
---
apiVersion: pulumi.com/v1
kind: Stack
metadata:
  name: pkodev
spec:
  stack: lukehoban/pkodev/test
  fluxSource:
    sourceRef:
      apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
      kind: Bucket
      name: pkodev
    dir: basic/
  destroyOnFinalize: true
```

> If we are using the `GitRepository` source along with GitHub, we can use Flux features like [WebHook Recievers] to expose a webhook that GitHub can trigger on pushes so that updates will be pushed into Flux and the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator directly (insead of waiting to pull them):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we are using the `GitRepository` source along with GitHub, we can use Flux features like [WebHook Recievers](https://fluxcd.io/flux/guides/webhook-receivers/) to expose a webhook that GitHub can trigger on pushes so that updates will be pushed into Flux and the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator directly (instead of waiting to pull them):
```

These features bring Pulumi and Kubernetes even closer together, enabling Pulumi’s rich Infrastructure as Code to fit even more naturally into the Kubernetes desired state and shared ownership model.

Check out the [Managing Resources with Server Side Apply](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/kubernetes/how-to-guides/managing-resources-with-server-side-apply/) article for more details on these new features.

## Conclusion

At Pulumi, we are passionate about pushing the state of the art of Infrastructure as Code forward, and applying modern Infrastructure as Code to support Kubernetes projects and teams is a critical component of that vision.  All of these new features around Pulumi and Kubernetes help to further empower teams to build scalable and robust solutions around Kubernetes and Pulumi IaC.

We’re so happy to be able to work with the Flux project to bring all of the benefits of its composable GitOps toolkit to Pulumi users. We’re excited about the new use cases that Inline Infrastructure support in the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator enables. And we’re thrilled to bring Server Side Apply and Patch support to the Pulumi Kubernetes Provider.

> You can [learn more about Pulumi and Kubernetes](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/kubernetes/) or jump in and [get started](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/kubernetes/) right away.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can [learn more about Pulumi and Kubernetes](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/kubernetes/) or jump in right away by following the [getting started guide](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/kubernetes/) or by[deploying a template](/templates/kubernetes).
```

Author: Took part of this suggestion, but left off the templates as there are not yet any Kubernetes template (only cluster templates).
